Now, let's take a look at using
ML Metadata with
a coding example.
Besides data lineage and
provenance tracking,
you get several other
benefits through ML Metadata.
This includes the
ability to construct
a directed acyclic graph or DAG,
of the component executions
occurring in a pipeline,
which can be useful for
debugging purposes.
Through this, you can verify
which inputs have been
used in an execution.
You can also summarize all
the artifacts belonging to
a specific type generated
after a series of experiments.
For example, you can list
all of the models that
have been trained.
You can then compare them to
evaluate your various
training runs.
Now, let's get started with
writing code for ML Metadata.
You may have to
install ML Metadata,
which you can do using
PIP as shown here.
Then there are two imports
from ML Metadata which
are used frequently,
the ML Metadata store
itself and the ML
Metadata store PB2,
which is a protocol
buffer or protobuf.
Start by setting up
the storage backend.
ML Metadata store is
the database where
ML Metadata registers all of
the metadata associated
with your project.
ML Metadata provides
APIs to connect with
a fake database for quick
prototyping, SQLite and MySQL.
We also need a block
store or file system
where ML Metadata stores
large objects like datasets.
Let's quickly explore
the first three options.
For any storage backend,
you'll need to create
a connection config object
using the metadata
store PB2 protobuf.
Then, based on your choice
of storage backend,
you need to configure
this connection object.
Here you're signaling that
your fake database is in parent,
which is the primary memory
of the system on
which it's running.
Finally, you create
the store object
passing in the connection config.
Regardless of what storage
or database you use,
the store object is
a key part of how you
interact with ML Metadata.
To use SQLite, you start
by creating a
connection config again
then you configure
the connection config
object with the location
of your SQLite file.
Make sure to provide that
with the relevant read and
write permissions based
on your application.
Finally, you create
the store object
passing in the connection config.
As you might imagine, using
MySQL is very similar,
you start by creating
a connection config.
Your connection config
object should be configured
with the relevant host
name, the port number,
the database location, username,
and password of your
MySQL database user
and that's shown here.
Finally, you create
the store object
passing in the connection config.
Now, that the storage
backend is configured,
it's time to use ML Metadata
to solve a problem.
Let's go over a
workflow using TFTV.
We're going to use that in
conjunction with ML Metadata.
The choice here is
a tabular dataset
containing many features.
In the lab, ML
Metadata is explicitly
programmed because in a
full-fledged ML Pipeline,
ML Metadata is intrinsically
capable enough to
understand the flow of
data between various components
and perform its necessary duties.
To help you better
understand ML Metadata,
you'll be using it
outside of a pipeline.
The lab also shows
ML Metadata integration with
TensorFlow Data
Validation or TFTP.
By the end of the lab,
you should have some intuition
about how ML Metadata
can keep track of
progress and how you can use
ML Metadata to track your
training process and pipeline.
Let's review the key points
which we covered in this lesson.
First, you learned about data
lineage and provenance to
address data evolution over
the ML Pipeline lifecycle.
Then you went over metadata
for tracking those data changes.
Then you inspected
the architecture
of the ML Metadata library.
Finally, in the ungraded lab,
you read an example to register
artifacts, executions,
and contexts.